Let's talk about your role at the program scale. In the last section,
we ended with getting all of the groundwork completed
regarding the application stakeholders.
What should we now be thinking about and considering
before we drill into epics and features?
Let's find out. Now our requirements are a much
larger scope and greater complexity.
We were used to doing analysis for a single product or a couple of systems,
and now it is much,
much broader. With a single Agile team, it was organized around a
product or system with all the necessary team members,
a product owner, business analyst, dev members,
testers, and maybe a Scrum Master, project leader or tech leader.
Again, any mix of those that works for your organization is,
of course,
fine. What we can expect in our daily work as a business analyst
to change, especially given such a lofty and broad requirement
like increase order revenue? Well,
we can expect a lot of change. With programs, we have a lot more complexity
and a larger scope of work to perform and need to consider and think about the
following, how many backlogs will this affect? Will you have multiple product
owners? How many and where are they?
How should the Agile and Lean teams be organized, by feature,
by component, by product, by service?
How do you prioritize across multiple backlogs?
How do we plan and coordinate all of this?
Now I go into some length on my Pluralsight course,
Deploying Value with Kanban, in how to design and organize complex,
interrelated backlogs.
So check that out. So you can see it will take some pretty
smart people, like yourself, to figure all this out. From
business analyst to program analyst.
The role of business analyst is very common, so you may not find
the role titled program or business unit analyst,
but I call it out here to make a point.
It is a much more responsible and experienced position. Before your
role was a business analyst working for the business itself and
partnering with the product owner or in the IT organization and
working more closely with the dev team or possibly in a project
management office working in the CFO's organization or just directly
to a finance function.
Working for program management is a huge step up with
significant and more impactful responsibilities.
This would be a major promotion and a senior‑level responsibility
if you choose this career path. Importantly,
you must be able to work with executives.
You will need to leverage the module, relationships,
the secret to successful requirements.
Therefore, you need the following skills, excellent at planning skills,
outstanding interpersonal skills, and superb at communication skills.
Are you ready for the job? I find this kind of work very intellectually intriguing, indeed.